now the health Ministry in Gaza which is
controlled by Hamas says the death toll
since the start of the war has now
topped 30,000 people the ministry says
more than 100 people were killed on
Thursday while they were waiting for
humanitarian Aid in Gaza City many of
the more than 700 wounded were rushed to
hospital Israeli media say an initial
military probe found that Israeli
soldiers did open fire on the crowd
believing they posed a threat
DW's Tanya ker joins us now for more
from Jerusalem Tanya what more do we
know about these um garans who were
apparently killed while waiting for Aid
on
Thursday yeah very devastating scenes
that were described by the eyewitnesses
but also conflicting uh reports on what
happened especially when it comes to the
timeline now we understand there were
the an aid Convoy or Convoy with Goods
coming from the south to the north on
the coastal Road that's along you know
the the the coastal line of Gaza uh
going into uh Northern Gaza passing a uh
a sort of checkpoint there of the
Israeli military now eyewitness uh um
said in in the wire service that you
know um and you could also see it on a
footage that was released by the Israeli
military that hundreds of people seem to
approach
those uh trucks trying to get to this a
trying to get to the food uh to the
goods that is on uh these are on the
trucks now uh I witness said there was
shooting involved and that people were
in panic running also the trucks were
trying to uh get away um and there was a
panic there happening and that's why the
uh Health Ministry in Gaza uh said that
over 100 people were killed and uh
several hundred injured in this inci now
the IDF has a different account of what
has happened there and and can you
remind us what the Israeli military is
saying about
it yeah they're saying basically in a
statement they released earlier and they
say also this the incident is still
under investigation they were saying
that in a first incident uh and that's
why they released this footage uh as
they say uh you know the people were
swarming towards these trucks and uh uh
there was a a panic uh there was a
stampede uh basically and then they're
talking about another incident that
happened not far away uh from that area
where they say that the military
responded with li fire as they uh felt
threatened um so the incident is still
under investigation we also heard from a
um government spokesperson he put uh you
know the uh numbers that the health
Ministry in Gaza uh put out there in
question and he described it as a
tragedy but of course we should not
forget um we have been hearing from
eight organizations from the United
Nations in the past days especially
warning of this extremely dire situation
especially in Northern Gaza because they
have difficulties to reach Gaza and you
see on these pictures uh um coming out
how desperately uh people are trying uh
to get the aid they need Tanya kma in
Jerusalem Tanya thank you very much for
that update